update troubleshoot-hot-spot-issues.md (#3028)
pingcap/docs: troubleshoot-hot-spot-issues.md

For Index data, key-value pair is encoded according to the following rules:

```text
Key: tablePrefix{tableID}_indexPrefixSep{indexID}_indexedColumnsValue_rowID
Value: null
```

### Table of hot spots

From TiDB coding rules, The data of the same table will be in a range prefixed by the beginning of the table id, and the order of the data is arranged in the order of the RowID values. When RowID values are incremented during table insert, The inserted line can only be appended at the end. When the region reaches a certain size, it will split, then it can only be appended at the end of the range range, and can always be insert on one region to form a hot spot.

The common increment type self-increment primary key is the sequential increment, by default, when the primary key is integer type, will use the primary key value as the RowID, at this time the RowID is the sequential increment, in a large number of insert to form writing hot spot of the table.

Meanwhile, RowID default in the TiDB is incremented in the order of self-increment. When the primary key is not an integer type, the writing hot spot will also be encountered.

> ### Index hot spots

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Index hotspots
```

Index hot spots are similar to table hot spots, and common hot spots appear in fields that are monotonously increasing in time order, or insert scenes with a large number of repeated values.

> ## Identification of hot issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Identify hotspot issues
```

Performance problems are not necessarily caused by hot spots, there may be a number of factors together, before checking need to confirm whether it is related to hot spots.

- The basis for judging and writing hot spots:Open the Hot Write panel in the TiKV-Trouble-Shooting of the monitoring panel (as shown in the figure below) to observe whether there is a phenomenon that the index of individual TiKV nodes is significantly higher than that of other nodes in the monitoring Raftstore CPU.

- Read hot spot basis: open the monitor panel TIKV-Details Thread_CPU, see if there is any obvious tikv particularly high.

> ### Use TiDB Dashboard to locate the hot tables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use TiDB Dashboard to locate hotspot tables
```

> The "Hot spot Visualization" feature in TiDB Dashboard helps users narrow down hot spot screening to table level,  Here is an example of the thermal diagram shown by the Hotspot Visualization function, where the horizontal coordinates are time, and the vertical coordinates arrange tables and indexes, The brighter the color, the greater the flow. You can switch to display read or write traffic in the toolbar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "Key Visualizer" feature in TiDB Dashboard helps users narrow down hot spot screening to table level,  Here is an example of the thermal diagram shown by the Hotspot Visualization function, where the horizontal coordinates are time, and the vertical coordinates arrange tables and indexes, The brighter the color, the greater the flow. You can switch to display read or write traffic in the toolbar.
```

![Dashboard Example 1](/media/troubleshoot-hot-spot-issues-1.png)

When the following bright slashes (diagonal up or diagonal down) appear in the write flow graph, Since writing only appears at the end, As the number region tables increases, they appear ladder-shaped. This shows that the table constitutes a writing hotspot:

![Dashboard Example 2](/media/troubleshoot-hot-spot-issues-2.png)

For reading hot spots, a bright horizontal line is generally shown in the thermodynamic diagram, Usually small tables with a large number of accesses, as shown in the figure below:

![Dashboard Example 3](/media/troubleshoot-hot-spot-issues-3.png)

Move the mouse over the bright block, You can see what table or index has a lot of traffic, for example:

![Dashboard Example 4](/media/troubleshoot-hot-spot-issues-4.png)

> [Prior to version 4.0 hot spot location can refer to this document](https://book.tidb.io/session4/chapter7/hotspot-resolved.html)

> ## Use SHARD_ROW_ID_BITS to process hot spots

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use `SHARD_ROW_ID_BITS` to process hotspots
```

>
> When TiDB alter-primary-key parameter is set to false, the table's integer primary key is used as the RowID. The SHARD_ROW_ID_BITS option can not be used at this time because SHARD_ROW_ID_BITS changes the RowID generation rules. When the alter-primary-key parameter is set to true, the TiDB no longer uses the integer primary key as the table when building the table RowID, and the table with the integer primary key can also use the SHARD_ROW_ID_BITS feature.

Here are two flow charts that use SHARD_ROW_ID_BITS to scatter hot spots without primary keys, The first shows the situation before the break-up, the second shows the situation after the break-up.

![Dashboard Example 5](/media/troubleshoot-hot-spot-issues-5.png)

![Dashboard Example 6](/media/troubleshoot-hot-spot-issues-6.png)

Visible from the flow chart, after setting the SHARD_ROW_ID_BITS, the flow hotspots become very scattered from the previous only on one Region.

## Handle self-increasing primary key hotspots using AUTO_RANDOM

AUTO_RANDOM processing of self-increased primary key hot spot table is suitable to replace self-increased primary key and solve the writing hot spot brought by self-increased primary key.

> > The function is currently experimental and is not recommended for use in the production environment. Can be enabled using the following configuration:
> >
> > [experimental]\
> > allow-auto-random = true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:**
>
> Currently, this is an experimental feature, so it is not recommended to use it in the production environment. To enable this feature, use the following configuration:
>
> ```
> [experimental]\
> allow-auto-random = true
> ```
```

---
title: Troubleshoot Hotspot Issues
summary: Learn how to locate and resolve read or write hotspot issues in TiDB.
---

# Troubleshoot Hotspot Issues

This document describes how to locate and resolve the problem of read and write hotspots.

> As a distributed database, TiDB has a load balancing mechanism to distribute the application loads as evenly as possible to different computing or storage nodes, to make better use of server resources.
> However, in certain scenarios, some application loads cannot be well distributed, which can affect the performance and form a single point of high load, also known as a hotspot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a distributed database, TiDB has a load balancing mechanism to distribute the application loads as evenly as possible to different computing or storage nodes, to make better use of server resources. However, in certain scenarios, some application loads cannot be well distributed, which can affect the performance and form a single point of high load, also known as a hotspot.
```
